# It's All About Capital Formation

Tushar Jain, an investing partner at Multicoin Capital, has an interesting theory about what drives crypto's cycles. Tushar's thesis is that each speculative bubble in crypto is sparked by new mechanisms for distributing tokens. In short, whenever a new innovation is created to distribute tokens to holders, a speculative boom ensues in those tokens.

**Belief: I would expand on this idea: instead of these cycles being driven by innovations in distributing tokens, I view crypto cycles as being driven by innovations in capital formation.**

Before continuing, it's important to explore what "capital formation" means in the first place. When I refer to capital formation, I mean the process of assembling different types of resources (e.g. labor, equipment, credit) in such a way that they are capable of producing more resources on their own. (As an aside, capital formation can be thought of as creating protocols or scripts for people to create more capital.)

In other words, the core "product" of crypto is new mechanisms through which [large groups of people can coordinate](https://unenumerated.blogspot.com/2017/02/money-blockchains-and-social-scalability.html) on common goals. 

## Past cycles revisited

To explore this idea further, let's look at a couple past crypto cycles and how we can look at them through the lens of capital formation (which formal, social coordination).

### ICO boom (2017)

The next bubble in crypto was driven by the notion of ICOs (Initial Coin Offerings). This concept was originally created by Ethereum when they launched in 2015. In short, an ICO allows users to purchase coins in a PoW blockchain at the time of launch. In turn, the funds from the launch are used to build a product. In Ethereum's case, the funds were used to build the first ever programmable blockchain, and to date has been a massive success.

ICOs, of course, are very similar to their heavily regulated, traditional counterparts, IPOs (Initial Public Offerings). IPOs are a direct form of capital formation: they allow corporations to raise financial capital, and apply that capital to their businesses to generate cash flow for investors. In exchange for the financial capital, investors receive equity in the firm (in addition to other protections) that entitles them to future profits generated by the company. In addition, these equities can be traded on the open market. This enables speculation. Like IPOs, ICOs were no exception.

Again, at the core of the ICO boom was a speculative frenzy enabled by a new type of crypto-native capital formation occurring. Users found a new way to coordinate around building crypto projects and speculation ensued. It's worth noting that this is not necessarily a good thing - extreme social coordination and capital formation can be inefficient and wasteful. And in many cases during the ICO boom, it was.

### NFTs (but realistically, DAOs) (2021)

Most recently, the notion of minting NFT collections led a speculative boom in the asset class. Many crypto projects began offering NFT collections via mint sales where users could purchase NFTs. In turn, the projects could invest the proceeds from the mint into the project. Like the ICO boom of 2017, it was not entirely clear what will come of this space yet, but there is a lot optimism.

NFT collections can also be seen as mechanisms for forming DAOs, or decentralized autonomous organizations. These DAOs allow users to coordinate on a common goal. For example, the Constitution DAO allowed users to deposit funds to bid on an original edition of the US Constitution. This DAO was spun up in weeks and demonstrated the power of crypto-native social coordination. NFT collections are similar: they allow disparate users to coalesce around a common cause.

We have yet to see what this means, but in practice, it could mean an innovation in governance of these projects. Previously, ICOs struggled with providing rights to their investors. With NFTs, investors become more [identifiable](https://newsletter.tally.xyz/p/non-fungible-governance), and as a result, can gain a greater say in the direction of a project. At a high level, this allows for more sophisticated crypto-native organizations to form.

## Potential Futures of DeFi

So what does that mean for the future? Within DeFi's credit space, there are a number of avenues that need to be explored:

1. Non-fungible credit: allow anybody to raise debt online, similar to an ICO. These may be more effective because of crypto's combined wealth-effect and incentivize liquidation process.
2. Combine non-fungible credit into derivative markets: this will allow more capital to flow into the space without having to be technically savvy. A lot of protocols are already ready for this such as Swivel Finance (fixed rates).
3. Tooling for DAOs to raise fungible debt. Many DAOs have massive treasuries (from ICOs) that they do not wish to spend. They are prime targets to raise debt capital.

## Conclusion

At its core, crypto is revolutionary because it enables permissionless, trust-minimized capital formation. After all, the social layer is the most important layer within a crypto ecosystem. That's why crypto's lack of products is so strange to many outsiders--the social layer is the product. In crypto, speculative booms become possible when previously adversarial parties are able to cooperate. The next cycle will be no different.